https://www.coursera.org/learn/business/lecture/n2EQr/language-focus-reading-skills-video-5-part-1
https://www.coursera.org/learn/business/lecture/FKczr/language-focus-reading-skills-video-5-part-2


Hello. This is unit one, video five. 
0:14
In this video we will introduce reading strategies. 
0:17
This course will require you to read several articles. The reading strategies discussed in this video will help you complete this requirement, manage your time, and learn more. 
0:31
We will use your first reading assignment "Entrepreneurship Seen as a Solution to South Africa's Unemployment Crisis" as an example, to practice the following four steps. 
0:45
Step 1. Preview the text. 
0:49
Previewing, is looking at and reading, parts of an article first, to get a general understanding of the content and organization of the article before you read it carefully. To preview, look at the title, subtitles, these are the smaller titles under the main title and sometimes before different sections of a reading. Pictures and captions, the descriptions under each of the pictures. 
1:19
Titles, subtitles, pictures and captions often include words and ideas that are important to the main point or argument. 
1:28
You should also look at information about the author and when or where the text was written. 
1:35
This kind of information can help you understand more about the author's connection to the topic, as well as how long ago the article was published. 
1:45
Finally, think about what you already know about the topic. 
1:51
This helps you to recall vocabulary that you might see as you read, so you'll be prepared for it. 
1:58
Now try out this step with your first reading and then answer the questions in the comprehension check to test your understanding.



Once you have looked through the titles, pictures and other information about the author and the reading. Make a prediction about what you think the article will be about. 
0:21
This is not always easy to do but you will get better the more you practice. 
0:28
Keep your prediction in mind as you read so you can stay focused and better understand what you are reading. 
0:36
Now do another comprehension check. Use your prediction for the article to help you look through the possible main ideas. 
0:46
Step two, read through the article quickly and without stopping. Do not stop reading, do not open your dictionary. Read all the way through, stopping to look up words will make you a slow reader and it will also be difficult to remember what you have read. When you finish, check your prediction. Was it correct? 
1:12
Try to summarize the reading in one sentence. 
1:16
Step three, read the article again and more closely. 
1:22
Use the following approaches or methods to make notes about what you do and do not understand. 
1:30
If you have a paper copy of the article, you can code the text by writing symbols in the margin. 
1:41
That is the white space on the side of the text. This will help you easily find information to review later. 
1:49
You can also mark or write on the text itself to help you identify the most important information in the reading later, or help focus your attention while you're reading. 
2:04
Remember that in newspaper articles the main idea is often in the title, first sentence, or first paragraph. 
2:14
Numbers and quotes are often used to provide supporting details. 
2:19
Now, look up any keywords that you still don't understand in your dictionary. This the best time to look up words because you already know the main idea of the article which will help you understand the definitions. 
2:36
If you have any difficulty understanding the reading or any vocabulary words. Start a discussion board post on Coursera to ask your community of classmates, any questions you still have. Now take the next comprehension check to make sure you understand steps two and three. 
3:00
Step four, after you finish reading, ask yourself the following questions to help you remember what you read. 
3:09
Number one, how does the reading connect to your own life, ideas, or experience with business and entrepreneurship? 
3:18
This question helps you think about the relationship between the reading and your life. 
3:24
Question two, does the reading remind you of something else you have read, heard or watched before? 
3:33
This question helps you think about the relationship between the current reading and other learning you have done in the past. 
3:41
Question three, how does the reading connect to your local community, your country, or the wider world? 
3:49
How do the issues the author discussed, affect the local, or global economy? 
3:56
These questions help you think about the relationship between the reading, your local community, your country and the rest of the world. 
4:06
If you find a really interesting relationship or connection when reading an article, please share your thoughts on the discussion boards. This will help your classmates learn more about you and the readings. Now you are ready to do your first course reading, you have already done step 1 the previewing. So now you can go ahead with the first reading, remember in step two do not stop reading. Do not open your dictionary, read all the way through and see what you can understand. Then with Step three, go back and read more closely. You can ask your Coursera classmates for help understanding ideas afterwards. Finally with step four, think about what connections you can make to your own life, the things you've learned before and the wider world. 
5:04
After you complete the reading and the comprehension checks, you will watch Video 6: Why Entrepreneurship. 
